# Project: Data Warehouse
#### Introduction

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As their data engineer, you are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

#### Project Datasets
You'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

Song data: s3a://udacity-dend/song_data
Log data: s3a://udacity-dend/log_data

#### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

- song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
- song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json

And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

```json
{
    "num_songs": 1, 
    "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", 
    "artist_latitude": null, 
    "artist_longitude": null, 
    "artist_location": "", 
    "artist_name": "Line Renaud", 
    "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", 
    "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", 
    "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0
}
```
#### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

- log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
- log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json


#### Parquet data schema
- songplays - records in event data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong 

| songplays | 
| ------- | 
| start_time | 
| user_id | 
| level | 
| song_id | 
| artist_id | 
| session_id | 
| location | 
| user_agent | 
| year | 
| month | 

- users - users in the app

| users | 
| ------- | 
| user_id | 
| first_name | 
| last_name | 
| gender | 
| level | 

- songs - songs in music database

| songs | 
| ------- | 
| title | 
| artist_id | 
| year | 
| duration | 

- artists - artists in music database 

| artists | 
| ------- | 
| artist_id | 
| artist_name | 
| location | 
| artist_location | 
| artist_latitude | 
| artist_longitude | 

- time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units 

| time | 
| ------- | 
| start_time | 
| hour | 
| day | 
| weekofyear | 
| month | 
| year | 
| weekday | 

#### Project Template

- etl.py is where you'll load data from S3 into staging tables on Redshift and then process that data into your analytics tables on Redshift.
- dl.cfg.
- README.md is where you'll provide discussion on your process and decisions for this ETL pipeline.
- /data is the sample data used for testing
- tests.ipynb notebook used for testing and validation

#### ETL Process
- Load credentials from df.cfg

- Read data from S3    
    - Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
    - Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

- Process data using spark

- Load it back to S3 as parquet files

#### How to run
1. Configure dl.cfg AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID and AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY 

```
[AWS]
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<>
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<>
```

2. Run etl.py. 

3. Use tests.ipynb to test.
